---
layout: post
title: "SQL Basics"
date: 2016-04-13
categories: 
keywords:
description: "SQL"
comments: true
categories:
- welcome
tags:
- welcome
- hello-world

---

SQL stands for Structured Query Language and is used to communicate with a database. Some of the things that it can be used for is updating or retrieving data from a database. To do these things, the programmer must use a command that will let them select, update, insert, delete, or find the location of data.

These databases take the form of different tables that connect to each other through different IDs, which are called primary keys, which each item in a table will have assigned to it. There are guidelines to go along with the different connections between tables. If an item in a table can only connect to one other item in a different table, it’s called a one-to-one relationship. That means that the primary key from one item will go into the information for the other item and visa versa. When one item needs to connect to many other items in a different table, it’s called a one-to-many relationship. The primary key from the singular item will be put into the information of the many items that it needs to connect to. And the last kind is when many items need to connect to many other items. If they’re not connected through a different connection in some way, then the programmer still needs to connect them, but they can’t just put many IDs for one item. They must instead create a join table, which will connect the items into one completely new table.

To create a new table:

DROP TABLE name_of_table;	

CREATE TABLE name_of_table (
	id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
	other_information_table_1,
	other_ information_table_2
);

The name_of_table is something that the programmer would put in to match whatever information the table holds. This is also something that’s always plural because it holds more than one of that thing. The id INTEGER line will automatically give each new entry a new id number. The other_ information_ table part is something that the programmer will fill in depending on what kind of information they want stored in their table, and there can be more than just two fields of course. This is just how to create one table, but more than one can and will be created to store all of the desired information.

To add a record to the table:

INSERT INTO name_of_table
(other_information_table_1, other_information_table_2)
VALUES
(‘insert info 1’, ‘insert info 2’)

The insert into part says what table the user is adding to and what fields of information are included and the values part is where the user actually inserting the new information for the record.

Some other commands that can be used are:
• Select: this selects data from where the programmer specifies it should in a table
	o SELECT column_name FROM table_name
	o Or to select everything from a table: SELECT * FROM table_name
• Where: this will specify what information is wanted and is used with other commands like select, insert, or update
	o SELECT column_name1 FROM table_name WHERE column_name2= ‘specific example of column’
• Update: this will update certain data in a database table
	o UPDATE table_name SET column_name = new_value
• Delete: this will delete data from a database table
	o DELETE FROM table_name WHERE column_name = ‘specific example of column’

These are just a few SQL commands to get started with, but there are still many more that I didn’t touch on.

Resources:
http://www.sqlcourse.com/intro.html
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7296846/how-to-implement-one-to-one-one-to-many-and-many-to-many-relationships-while-de
http://www.sqlcommands.net 
